# network psychometric analyses_YawenXU

# Network Analysis of Critical Thinking Intervention

This repository contains the R scripts and data for network analysis and intervention simulations aimed at identifying effective targets for Critical Thinking (CT) intervention within the network of psychological constructs such as beliefs, feelings, and attitudes.

## Table of Contents

- [Description](#description)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Data](#data)
- [Analysis](#analysis)
- [Figures](#figures)
- [Running the Analysis](#running-the-analysis)
- [Contact](#contact)

## Description

This project utilizes network estimations and intervention simulations in R version 4.3.2 to model psychological constructs. We constructed three CT networks using the Ising model, which has been extended from theoretical physics to model psychological constructs. The Ising Model employs logistic regression analysis to estimate its parameters, and the NodeIdentifyR algorithm is used to calculate the sum scores of the new network generated through intervention simulations.

## Setup

To run this project, ensure you have the following R packages installed:

- bootnet
- dplyr
- nodeIdentifyR
- devtools
- readxl
- NetworkComparisonTest
- qgraph
- ggplot2
- networktools

You can install the required packages using the following commands:

```bash
install.packages(c("bootnet", "dplyr", "readxl", "NetworkComparisonTest", "qgraph", "ggplot2", "networktools"))
devtools::install_github("JasperNaberman/nodeIdentifyR")
```

## Data

The data/ directory contains the Excel files used for the analysis. Please ensure these files are placed in the correct directory or update the file paths in the network_analysis.R script accordingly.

## Analysis

The network_analysis.R script performs the following steps:

    Loads the required libraries and data.
    Estimates the network using the Ising model and EBICglasso algorithm.
    Simulates interventions and calculates sum scores using NodeIdentifyR.
    Compares networks and assesses the impact of interventions.
    Visualizes the network structures and centrality measures.

## Figures

The figures/ directory will store the output images generated by the analysis, including network plots and centrality measures.

## Running the Analysis

To run the analysis, simply execute the network_analysis.R script in your R environment. Ensure the data files are accessible and the output directories are correctly specified.

## Contact

For any questions or further inquiries, please contact:

Yawen XU

M202375413@Hust.edu.cn








